Known bugs in current version and older versions:

1.5.0
- Under some conditions, recoll startup and exit could be very slow: the
  simple search history list had serious problems with non-ascii strings,
  whose size sometimes doubled at each program startup/stop.
  
1.4.2 - 1.5.0
- When a mime type has an external viewer defined, but the actual file is
  compressed (ie: xxx.txt.gz), recoll will try to start the external viewer
  on the compressed file, which will not work in most cases.

- There are problems which have been reported indexing big mailstores
  (several hundreds of thousands of messages): resulting in a very big
  database and even crashes during indexation.

1.3.3

- Several of the external filters did not handle path names with embedded
  spaces (rcluncomp rclsoff rclps rclmedia rcldjvu). This is fixed in 1.4.

- If your QT installation is built with the QT_NO_STL flag, Recoll will not
  compile. I have a patch for this (will be fixed in the next release),
  contact me if you get the problem. Typical error message:
     main.cpp:160: error: no match for 'operator+=' in 'msg += reason'

- The 'None of these words' field in the complex search does not work if
  there are no other filled fields (it transforms into an ordinary
  search). Workaround: enter very common term(s) in the 'any of these
  words' field.

- Indexing cannot currently be conveniently and cleanly stopped when it's
  started. You can kill the process, and keyboard interrupt might work, but
  this may leave the database in a bad state. This is fixed in the upcoming
  release, there is no current workaround.

1.2.2
- The preview window is supposed to scroll after loading the document so
  that the first search term is visible. This does not work in many cases.
- The result list title is not shown for sorted lists

Notes on older versions:
- Trouble compiling on some linux systems (Gentoo and Slackware?). There
  existed a quite common issue where the Recoll link will fail trying to
  use a libstdc++.la file. This was due to a problem with the xapian-config
  program. A workaround has been included in the configure script for
  recoll 1.2.2, and the problem should not occur any more.

- Case-insensitive search should now work in most cases (used to not work
  except for accented ascii).

- All directories and files with names beginning with a dot were ignored
  by the skippedNames directive in the default recoll.conf file from
  older versions (no indexation of mozilla or thunderbird email !). An
  upgrade will not fix this (it will not modify an existing
  configuration). You need to edit recoll.conf by hand and remove the .*
  from skippedNames.



